## **Objective**

The objective of this hands-on lab is to guide DevOps students through the process of containerizing a static web application using Docker and Nginx. By the end of this lab, you will have gained hands-on experience with Docker and learned how to deploy a static web application in a containerized environment.

## Steps

The steps covered in this tutorial include:

1. Getting the code base
2. Creating the Dockerfile.
3. Building the Docker image.
4. Running the Docker container.
5. Verifying the containerized web application.

Let's get started!

## **Step 1: Setting up the project structure**

1. Create a new directory for your project:
    
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/chandradeoarya/dojo-jump.git
    ```
    

## **Step 2: Creating the Dockerfile**

1. Create a file named **`Dockerfile`** in the project directory:
    
    ```
    touch Dockerfile
    ```
    
2. Open the **`Dockerfile`** in a text editor and add the following content:
    
    ```docker
    FROM nginx
    
    COPY index.html /usr/share/nginx/html
    COPY style.css /usr/share/nginx/html
    COPY main.js /usr/share/nginx/html
    
    EXPOSE 80
    ```
    
    **Explanation:**
    
    Please read `EXPOSE` section on [Using `EXPOSE`](https://www.notion.so/Using-EXPOSE-b7a0b2fa0ef5454983f06d3083be3470?pvs=21) to understand why `EXPOSE 80` has been mentioned here.
    

## **Step 3: Building the Docker image**

1. Build the Docker image using the following command:
    
    ```bash
    docker build -t dojo-jump .
    ```
    
    The **`-t`** flag allows you to specify the name and tag for the image. In this case, we named the image `**dojo-jump**`.
    
2. Wait for the image to be built. Docker will execute the instructions in the Dockerfile and create a new image based on the configuration specified.

## **Step 4: Running the Docker container**

1. Run the Docker container using the following command:
    
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8080:80 --name dojo-jump_c dojo-jump
    ```
    
    The **`-d`** flag runs the container in detached mode, and the **`-p`** flag maps the host port (**`8080`**) to the container port (**`80`**).
    
2. Verify that the container is running