## Introduction

Understanding how data persistence works in Docker is crucial for ensuring that your application's data is preserved and accessible across container lifecycles. 

### Nature of docker container

- Docker containers are designed to be lightweight, portable, and immutable.
- Containers are typically created from an image, which contains the necessary file system and application components.
- By default, containers are stateless, meaning they do not retain changes made during runtime once they are stopped or removed.

In this lesson, we will explore the nature of data persistence in Docker containers and discuss important concepts related to data storage and management.

## Experiencing Docker container data persistence

- Check if the docker service is up and running.

```bash
systemctl status docker
```

- Run a `alpine` container with interactive shell open, and add command to run alpine shell. Here, explain explain what the alpine container is and why it is so popular. (Small size, Secure, Simple, Fast boot)

```bash
docker run -it --name my-alpine alpine ash
```

- Display the os release of the alpine container.

```bash
cat /etc/os-release
```

- Create a file named `hello-devops.txt` under `/home` folder

```bash
cd home && touch hello-devops.txt && ls
```

- Exit the container and return to ec2-user bash shell.

```bash
exit
```

- Show the list of all containers available on Docker machine.

```bash
docker ps -a
```

- Start the alpine container and connect to it.

```bash
docker start my-alpine && docker attach my-alpine
```

- Show that the file `hello-devops.txt` is still there, and explain why it is there. (Container holds it data until removed).

```bash
ls /home
```

- Exit the container and return to ec2-user bash shell.

```bash
exit
```

- Remove the alpine container.

```bash
docker rm my-alpine
```

- Show the list of all containers, and the alpine container is gone with its data.

```bash
docker ps -a
```