# Creating and managing volume
Docker provides different types of volumes to handle data storage and management within containers.

In this hands-on lesson we will explore `Named Volume` types.

- List the volumes available in Docker, since we have not added any volume before so this list should be empty.

```bash
docker volume ls
```

- Create a volume named `docker-chandra-vol`.

```bash
docker volume create docker-chandra-vol
```

- List the volumes available in Docker, should see local volume `docker-chandra-vol` in the list.

```bash
docker volume ls
```

- Show details and explain the volume `docker-chandra-vol`. Note the mount point: `/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker-chandra-vol/_data`.

```bash
docker inspect docker-chandra-vol
```

- Run an `alpine` container with interactive shell open, name the container as `docker-chandra`, attach the volume `docker-chandra-vol` to `/docker-chandra-path` mount point in the container, and add command to run alpine shell. Here, explain `-volume` and `v` flags.

```bash
docker run -it --name docker-chandra-container -v docker-chandra-vol:/docker-chandra-path alpine sh
```

- List files/folder in `docker-chandra-container` container, show mounting point `/docker-chandra-path`, and explain the mounted volume `docker-chandra-vol`.

```bash
ls
```

- Create a file in `docker-chandra-container` container under `/docker-chandra-path` folder.

```bash
cd docker-chandra-path && echo "Hello writing in docker-chandra-path" > immortal.txt
```

- List the files in `/docker-chandra-path` folder, and show content of immortal.txt.

```bash
ls
cat immortal.txt
```

- Exit the `docker-chandra-container` container and return to ec2-user bash shell.

```bash
exit
```

- Show the list of all containers available on Docker machine.

```bash
docker ps -a
```

- Remove the `docker-chandra-container` container.

```bash
docker rm docker-chandra-container
```

- Show the list of all containers, and the `docker-chandra-container` container is gone.

```bash
docker ps -a
```