## Introduction

A Docker container is a runtime instance of a Docker image. It is a lightweight, standalone, executable package that includes everything needed to run an application, including the code, runtime, system tools, system libraries, and settings.

### How does a container work

Containers provide a consistent and isolated environment for applications to run, allowing them to be easily deployed and scaled across different computing environments. Each container shares the host system's kernel but has its own isolated file system, processes, and network stack. This isolation ensures that applications running in different containers do not interfere with each other and provides a high level of portability.

## Key differences between Docker images and containers

1. **Purpose**: Images are read-only templates used to create containers, while containers are runtime instances of images.
2. **Layers**: Images are composed of multiple layers, while containers have a single writable layer on top of the image layers.
3. **State**: Images are static and immutable, while containers are dynamic and can have their state changed (e.g., by modifying files, installing packages).
4. **Lifecycle**: Images are built once and can be used to create multiple containers, while containers are created from images and can be stopped, started, and terminated.

These two concepts actually run in parallel. We use registry to pull images and then run them to use them as container. 

- Pulling image from registry

```bash
# Pulling an image
docker pull ubuntu:latest

# Listing downloaded images
docker images
```

- Running a container from the pulled image

```bash
docker run -d --name my_container ubuntu:latest sleep infinity

docker ps

docker inspect my_container
```