### Introduction

We'll create a simple Node.js application to demonstrate environment variable usage to pass runtime configurations in Docker.

### **Objectives:**

- Gain practical experience with environment variables in Docker.
- Explore different methods for passing runtime configurations.
- Understand the benefits and considerations of using environment variables.

### **Steps:**

1. **Create a Node.js Application (app.js):**

```jsx
const express = require('express');
const app = express();

const port = process.env.PORT || 3000; // Use environment variable or default

app.get('/', (req, res) => {
    const message = process.env.MESSAGE || 'Hello from the Docker container!';
    res.send(message);
});

app.listen(port, () => {
    console.log(`Server listening on port ${port}`);
});
```

This code defines a basic Express server that responds with a message. The `port` is retrieved from the `PORT` environment variable if set, otherwise it defaults to 3000. The `MESSAGE` environment variable determines the response content.

1. **Create a Dockerfile:**
    
    ```jsx
    FROM node:18-alpine
    
    WORKDIR /app
    
    COPY package*.json ./
    RUN npm install
    
    COPY . .
    
    CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
    ```
    
    This Dockerfile builds an image based on `node:18-alpine`, installs dependencies using `npm install`, and copies the application code into the container. The `CMD` instruction specifies the command to run when the container starts (in this case, `node app.js`).

    - `package.json` for this is:
    ```json
    {
    "name": "your-app-name",  
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "A simple Express app (replace with a meaningful description)",
    "main": "app.js",  
    "scripts": {
      "start": "node app.js"
    },
    "dependencies": {
      "express": "^4.18.2"
    }
   }
   
    ```
    
2. **Build the Docker Image:**
    
    Open a terminal and navigate to the directory containing the Dockerfile and `app.js` and run the following command.
    
    ```bash
    docker build -t env-config .
    ```
    
    This builds a Docker image named `env-config` from the current directory.
    
3. **Run the Container with Environment Variables:**
    
    Start a container based on the `env-config` image, passing environment variables at runtime:
    
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8080:3000 -e MESSAGE="Hello" env-config
    ```
    
    Explanation of the command:
    
    - `d`: Runs the container in detached mode (background).
    - `p 8080:3000`: Maps container port 3000 (default for Express) to host port 8080.
    - `e PORT=5000`: Sets the `PORT` environment variable inside the container to 5000.
    - `e MESSAGE="Welcome!"`: Sets the `MESSAGE` environment variable to "Welcome!".
    
    Access the application in your browser at `http://localhost:8080/`. You should see "Hello Docker!" displayed.