## Introduction

Bind mounts in Docker allow direct mapping of host system directories or files to container directories, enabling access to host resources, sharing of data, and persistent storage. They are very helpful during development and testing when there is a need to interact with or utilize host system files or directories from within containers.

## Lab

- Run the `nginx` container at the detached mod, name the container as `nginx-default`, and open
    
    on browser and show the nginx default page.
    

```bash
docker run -d --name nginx-default -p 80:80  nginx
```

- Add a security rule for protocol HTTP port 80 and show Nginx Web Server is running on Docker Machine.

```
http://<public-ip>:80
```

- Attach the `nginx` container, show the index.html in the /usr/share/nginx/html directory.

```bash
docker exec -it nginx-default bash
cd usr/share/nginx/html
ls 
cat index.html 
```

- `exit` the container
- Remove the container
    
    ```bash
    docker stop nginx-default
    docker rm nginx-default
    ```
    
- Create a folder named webpage, and an index.html file.

```bash
mkdir webpage
cd webpage
echo "<h1>Hi Doctor Chandra:)</h1>" > index.html
```

- Run the `nginx` container at the detached mod, name the container as `nginx-docker-chandra`, attach the directory `/home/ec2-user/webpage` to `/usr/share/nginx/html` mount point in the container, and open on browser and show the web page.

```bash
docker run -d --name nginx-docker-chandra -p 80:80 -v /home/$USER/webpage:/usr/share/nginx/html nginx
```

- Add a security rule for protocol HTTP port 80 and show Nginx Web Server is running on Docker Machine.

```
http://<public-ip>:80
```

- Attach the `nginx` container, show the index.html in the `/usr/share/nginx/html` directory.

```bash
docker exec -it nginx-docker-chandra bash
```

- `exit` the container.
- Add `<h2>Oops, Docker Chandra</h2>` line to index.html in the `/home/$USER/webpage` folder and check the web page on browser.

```bash
cd /home/$USER/webpage
echo "<h2>Oops, Docker Chandra</h2> :D" >> index.html
```

- Stop all the running containers

```bash
docker stop $(docker ps -q)
docker rm $(docker ps -aq)
```

- Remove the volumes.

```bash
 docker volume prune -f
```