## Single-Stage Build in Docker

Docker is a popular containerization platform that allows you to package an application and its dependencies into a lightweight, portable container. When building Docker images, you have the option to use either a single-stage or multi-stage build process.

### Single-Stage Build

A single-stage build is a Docker build process that utilizes a single `Dockerfile` to create the final Docker image. In this approach, all the necessary steps for building and configuring the application are defined within a single file. This includes tasks like installing dependencies, compiling code, and setting up the runtime environment.

### Limitations of Single-Stage Build

While single-stage builds provide simplicity and ease of use, they also have certain limitations that you should be aware of:

1. **Build Environment**: Single-stage builds rely on the base image for the build environment. If the base image does not provide all the necessary tools or dependencies required during the build process, you might encounter issues.
2. **Image Size**: Single-stage builds tend to result in larger image sizes. Since all build tools and dependencies are included in the final image, it can lead to unnecessary bloat if not properly managed.
3. **Reusability**: Single-stage builds can be less reusable across different deployment scenarios. For example, if you need to build an image for both development and production environments, a single-stage build might not be the most efficient approach.
4. **Security**: Including build tools and dependencies in the final image can introduce potential security risks. It is essential to ensure that only necessary components are included and that they are kept up to date with security patches.
5. **Build Time**: Depending on the complexity of the application and the build process, single-stage builds can be slower compared to multi-stage builds. This is because every build step needs to be executed sequentially, even if some steps are not directly related to the final image.

### Example single stage build
- Dockerfile

```docker
FROM node:14 as builder
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .

EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
```

## Example Multi stage Build

- Dockerfile

```docker
# Stage 1 - the build process
FROM node:14 as builder
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .

# Stage 2 - the production environment
FROM node:14-alpine
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY --from=builder /usr/src/app .
EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
```