Purpose of the this hands-on training is to teach students how to use docker logs, top and stats commands.

## Learning Outcomes

At the end of the this hands-on training, students will be able to;

- use docker logs, top and stats commands.

## Outline

- Part 1 - Launch a Docker Machine Instance and Connect with SSH
- Part 2 - Docker Logs of a container
- Part 3 - Docker top and stats commands

## Part 1 - Launch a Docker Machine Instance and Connect with SSH

Ignore this step if working on local system.

## Part 2 - Docker Logs of a container

- The docker logs command shows information logged by a running container.
- Run an nginx container.

```bash
docker container run --name ng -d -p 80:80 nginx
```

- Fetch the logs of ng container with `docker logs` command.

```bash
docker logs ng
```

- Produce logs with curl command.

```bash
curl http://<local-ip>
```

- Display the detailed information about logs.

```bash
docker logs --details ng
```

- Display the timestamps of logs.

```bash
docker logs -t ng
```

- Display the last 5 lines of logs.

```bash
docker logs --tail 5 ng
```

- Follow the container logs.

```bash
docker logs -f ng
```

## Part 3 - Docker top and stats commands

- Display the running processes of a container.

```bash
docker top ng
```

- Display the resource usage statistic of container(s).

```bash
docker stats
```

- We can display a specific container’s resource usage statistics.

```bash
docker stats ng
```

- We can limit the memory and cpu usage of containers. Create a new nginx container and limit memory.

```bash
docker container run --name ng-2 --memory=200m -d -p 8080:80 nginx
```

- Display the resource usage statistic of containers and pay attention to the limited memory usage of containers.

```bash
docker stats
```

- Create a new nginx container and limit the cpu usage.

```bash
docker container run --name ng-3 --cpus=2 -d -p 8081:80 nginx
```

- Remove all the containers.

```bash
docker container rm -f $(docker ps -aq)
```