# Importance of security in docker
Docker containers offer a lightweight and efficient way to package and run applications. However, security is paramount in any environment including Docker. 

### **Why is Docker Security Important?**

- **Vulnerable Images:** Downloaded container images might harbor vulnerabilities, introducing security risks to your system.
- **Privilege Escalation:** Misconfigurations can allow attackers to gain escalated privileges within a container, potentially compromising your host system.
- **Unrestricted Access:** Improper access controls can expose your containers to unauthorized access or attacks.

# Build time security in docker
In this tutorial, we will explore best practices for building secure and efficient Docker images. We will cover topics such as base image selection, multi-stage builds, regular rebuilds, and vulnerability scanning to ensure that your Docker images are optimized, secure, and up-to-date.

### **1. Base Image Selection**

**Choosing the right base image:**

The base image is the starting point for your Docker image. It's crucial to choose one that's secure, well-maintained, and minimal in size. Opt for smaller images like **Alpine Linux** which has a smaller footprint and fewer packages compared to larger distributions.

### **2. Multi-Stage Builds**

Building Lean Images:Multi-stage builds allow us to separate the build environment from the final runtime environment, resulting in smaller and more secure images.

### **3. Regular Rebuilds**

**Staying Up-to-Date:**

Security vulnerabilities are constantly discovered. To ensure your images are secure, it's important to rebuild them periodically. This allows you to incorporate the latest security patches and address any newly discovered vulnerabilities.

### **4. Vulnerability Scanning**

**Early Detection:**

Vulnerability scanning tools can identify potential security issues within your Docker images. This allows you to fix the vulnerabilities before they can be exploited in production.

# Run time security docker
Runtime security in Docker is crucial for safeguarding containerized applications and the underlying infrastructure. It helps prevent unauthorized access, mitigate vulnerabilities, and ensure the integrity and availability of containerized services.

### **1. User Permissions:**

**Don't run containers as root:** By default, Docker containers inherit the user ID (UID) and group ID (GID) of the user running the `docker run` command. Avoid running containers with the `root` user, as this grants them full system access. Here's a secure approach:

```bash
docker run -u <username>[:<groupname>] <image_name>
```

### 2. Network Isolation

The default networking mode (bridge) connects containers to the host's network namespace, potentially exposing them to the entire network.

We can configure network isolation to restrict containers from communicating with unauthorized hosts or services.

### 3. Resource Limitations

Docker allows you to specify resource limits (CPU, memory) for containers to prevent them from consuming excessive resources and impacting other applications. Use the `--cpu-shares`, `--mem-limit`, and `--cpus` flags:

- Run a container with CPU limits

```bash
docker run --rm --cpus=".5" ubuntu
```

This will run an Ubuntu container with a CPU limit of 0.5 cores.

- Run a container with memory limits

```bash
docker run --rm --memory=256m ubuntu
```

This will run an Ubuntu container with a memory limit of 256MB.