### **Description**

In Docker, containers are typically connected to a network to enable communication between containers and the external world. However, there are scenarios where you might want to create containers without any network connectivity. This is where the None network comes into play.

### Step 1: Start a container with the None network

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Run the following command to start a container without network connectivity using the None network:
    
    ```bash
    docker run -d --name isolated-container --network none alpine sleep infinity
    ```
    
    This command starts a new container named **`isolated-container`** using the **`alpine`** image and the command **`sleep infinity`** to keep the container running indefinitely. The **`--network none`** flag ensures that the container is connected to the None network.
    

### Step 2: Verify the container status

1. Run the following command to verify the status of the **`isolated-container`**:
    
    ```bash
    docker ps
    ```
    
    You should see the **`isolated-container`** listed with a status of "Up."
    
2. Note down the container's ID or name as we will be using it in the next step.

### Step 3: Attempt network access from the container

1. In the same terminal, run the following command to access the shell of the **`isolated-container`**:
    
    ```bash
    docker exec -it isolated-container sh
    ```
    
    This command opens a shell session within the running container.
    
2. From within the container's shell, try to access an external website or ping a remote IP address. For example:
    
    ```
    curl -L chandradeoarya.com
    ```
    
    You will observe that the container does not have network connectivity and is unable to access external resources.
    
3. Exit the container's shell by running the **`exit`** command.

### Step 4: Stop and clean up

1. To stop the **`isolated-container`**, run the following command:
    
    ```bash
    docker stop isolated-container
    ```
    
2. Optionally, you can remove the container by running the following command:
    
    ```bash
    docker rm isolated-container
    ```
    
    This will remove the container from your system.