## Introduction

The User Defined Bridge network in Docker allows users to create their own custom bridge networks. It provides a dedicated network for containers to communicate with each other within the same Docker host. User Defined Bridge networks offer greater control over network configurations, including IP addressing, DNS resolution, and network isolation. They enable improved scalability and enable containers to connect across multiple hosts. 

## Lab

In this hands-on lab we will see how developers can use User Defined Bridge networks to create more customized and secure networking environments for their containerized applications.

- Create a bridge network `docker_chandra_net`.

```bash
docker network create --driver bridge docker_chandra_net
```

- List all networks available in Docker, and show the user-defined `docker_chandra_net`.

```bash
docker network ls
```

- Show the details of `docker_chandra_net`, and show that there is no container yet.

```bash
docker network inspect docker_chandra_net
```

- Run four `alpine` containers with interactive shell, in detached mode, name the containers as `docker_chandra_container_1st`, `docker_chandra_container_2nd`, and add command to run alpine shell. Here, 1st and 2nd containers should be in `docker_chandra_net`, 3rd container should be in default network bridge, 4th container should be in both `docker_chandra_net` and default network bridge.

```bash
docker run -dit --network docker_chandra_net --name docker_chandra_container_1st alpine sh
docker run -dit --network docker_chandra_net --name docker_chandra_container_2nd alpine sh
```

- List all running containers and show there up and running.

```bash
docker container ls
```

- Show the details of `docker_chandra_net`, and explain newly added containers. (1st, 2nd, and 4th containers should be in the list)

```bash
docker network inspect docker_chandra_net
```

- Show the details of default network bridge, and explain newly added containers. (3rd and 4th containers should be in the list)

```bash
docker network inspect bridge
```

- Connect to the `docker_chandra_container_1st` container.

```bash
docker attach docker_chandra_container_1st
```

- Ping `docker_chandra_container_2nd` container by its name to show that in user-defined network, container names can be used in networking.

```bash
ping -c 4 docker_chandra_container_2nd
```

- Ping google.com to check internet connection.

```bash
curl -L chandradeoarya.com
```

- Exit the `docker_chandra_container_1st` container without stopping and return to `$USER` bash shell.

- Delete `docker_chandra_net` network

```bash
docker network rm docker_chandra_net
```